- [Instructor] So far we have seen
how to build a Docker image, how to run a container.
But those are all single images, single containers.
But typically when you're building your application,
that application would consist of a web server,
a database server, an application server,
a caching, a messaging server, multiple set components.
So essentially, your application consists
of multiple containers.
Well, that's the purpose of Docker Compose.
Docker Compose allows you to run
a multicontainer application very easily.
Let's take a look at what does it offer,
what are the capabilities,
and then we will look into some code as well.
So what is Docker Compose?
As we said, Docker Compose allows us to define
and run multicontainer applications very easily.
Where are these container applications defined,
how are these defined,
what are the commands that are available to me,
are going to be explained in this section.
Well, the configuration is defined in one or more files.
By default, the file configuration name
is docker-compose.yml.
That's the default name.
You can certainly choose a different name,
and there are options to do that.
In addition, there is also a file that could be available
in your directory by the name docker-compose.override.yml.
And if that file exists,
that file overrides the definitions
that are available in docker-compose.yml.
What gets overridden, what is not allowed to be overridden,
is going to be explained in a later section as well.
But if these two files exist, they are merged together
to create single Docker Compose definition.
If you want to specify multiple files,
that can be done using -f switch,
and we'll take a look at this in a later section as well.
A single command, which is docker-compose,
is used to manage all the services.
To bring up all the services, to build all the images,
to shut down all the services, that is very convenient.
It is very good for development, staging, and CI phases,
and it also helps you reduce impedance mismatch
between all of these different stages
because a single file is being used,
and then you can override certain parts and pieces of it.
So let's take a look at how do we get started with it.
I'm in my terminal here.
Now that we are in chapter three, let's go to
the chapter three directory of our exercise files.
And in my terminal,
let's take a look at docker-compose CLI,
and I'm going to say -version.
Docker Compose CLI comes bundled as part of
the Docker Community Edition or Docker Toolbox,
and that is very convenient.
Let's take a look at what else Docker Compose can do for us.
And if you remember,
our magic command for that is going to be --help.
If I do --help,
there are a lots of commands that are available here.
Well first of all, there are several options
that can be specified.
As we say, -f or --file can be used
to specify an alternate Compose file.
We'll take a look at how we can specific different projects.
We looked at version.
We can also connect to a specific Docker host,
and then there are some other options as well.
These are the list of commands here.
This allows me to build or rebuild all the services.
And I'm going to only walk you through
some of the major commands here that we'll be using later.
This will allow you to create the services.
If we go down here for a second,
this up command will allow you
to create and start all the containers.
Go up here again.
This will allow you to stop and remove the containers.
That is very helpful.
This allows you to kill all the containers.
Logs allow you to view output from all the containers,
ps allows you to list all the containers.
That is a very UNIX-like command.
You can restart the services.
You can start the services.
So this way there are lots of commands that are available,
and if you want for their help about a particular command,
let's say I want help more about the up command.
I can say up --help,
and now up-specific options are shown to me,
and it gives me more details on how I can build,
create, start, and attach containers for a service.